---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Guest Speaker Gil Yehuda
---

   This week we had Gil Yehuda talk to us about the impact open source has had on his role at Yahoo/Verizon and how it impacted the software engineering landscape overall. This was an especially interesting talk because of how important the role Gil has at his company and how long he has been in the field of software engineering. He was able to shed some light on the backlash that open source originally had towards it, for example, telling us that he originally thought that open source was going to be impossible for a corporation to benefit from, but explained that over time he began to feel that the benefits outweigh the negatives. This is different to the guest speakers prior because its a more realistic example of how open soure arose in large companies and how their software engineers probably felt at first. In addition to this, he is what one could consider a executive at his company, so its implied he has been there for a long time and really has seen the rise of open source first hand. The coolest part in my opinion was when he explained the ways to leverage open source to help us get employment, and as he said that he at one point helped with recruitment for his company, it was a very valid opinion on what to do to get a job through open source contributions. He explained that showing depth, passion, and attention to detail in any code one puts out publically is best way to show to employers that we are talented. I will definitely change how I deal with publically uploading code as a result of this talk.
