---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Project Presentations
---

   In class this week, each group presented on the open source project that they chose. It was interesting to see which projects had the most contributions and communication done by the students. It seemed that those with the greatest success were projects that were medium sized and in the process of a big change. For example one group found lots of work in updating links, and translating examples and comments on a website. Some groups had issues with communicating with their projects. For example the groups who decided on freecodecamp seemed to be pushed aside when trying to communicate with contributers. I feel that the reason for this is that large projects like freecodecamp have too many people already working on it making it difficult to find anyone willing to mentor some students who are looking to make some quick contributions. Unfortunately due to time constraints our group was unable to present on our progress, but in terms of communication with the project we seem to be in the green. This is because our project: Inky has a company behind it meaning there are people working on it 24/7 even though there are not many people working on it per say. In terms of actual contributions we had some ideas as most of the stuff that needs work seems to be functionality in terms of ui for non coders. For example one of the possible contributions is expanding on Inky's dark mode user interface. One of our group members has also raised the issue of possible problems while installing the environment and posted it to the project's issues on github. In terms of actual coding the project is built in node.js so I am learning a little bit trying to figure out where things are and how the files interact with eachother.
