---
layout: post
title: Week 8 Back to Class
---

  This week I did a little bit of research on Godot and some games that were made on it. It seems like the engine itself is truly very
versatile in the types of games that can built, I actually found out two games I really enjoyed playing were created with godot. This
excites me greatly because I have even more of a reason to contribute to Godot beyond just because we must for class. 

  The group I'm in did not have time to meet up because of all the things that happened with NYU dorms, etc this past week, but we are
planning on having a meeting online before class because we all are free finally. I myself did a little research on what we are likely
to be working on for the project, and it seems like the bulk of what the project needs is documentation, and platform specific bugs. The
documentation contributions should be relatively straightforward as in we read the code, understand it, then write what it does, but
the platform specific bugs will be hard to fix because we need to be able to reproduce the bugs to solve them which is not easy to do
unless we have Macs, windows, and linux computers to test on. I guess in this case virtual machines will be the best way to enable us
to work on these issues, but then comes the issue with differences in hardware which also seem to cause bugs for some of Godot's functions.
I guess the bright side of this all is that there are lots of things to work on, but the difficulty will be that these issues will be hard
to even work on. Regardless, I'm positive we will be able to assist in some way (most likely with documentation), so I am not worried, but
given that communication between group members might be difficult, when we do meet, staying on task seems like it may be imperative to actually
getting things done.
